
This tar file contains the Spherical Harmonic Discrete Ordinate Method
(SHDOM) radiative transfer model written by Frank Evans at the
University of Colorado.  This model computes polarized monochromatic or
spectral band radiative transfer in a one, two, or three-dimensional
medium for either collimated solar and/or thermal emission sources of
radiation.  The model is written in a variant of Fortran 77 and in
Fortran90, and it requires a Fortran 90 compiler.  The distribution also
contains Fortran 90 programs for generating the optical property files
input to SHDOM from physical properties of water cloud particles
and aerosols.  

This is a preliminary beta distribution because more testing is needed
of polarized SHDOM, though first order testing has been done.  The
distribution is available from http://nit.colorado.edu.  This Web site
also contains results of validation testing, examples useful for
learning how to run the model, and a PDF version of journal articles.

The new polarized distribution does not contain make_ice_table.f90
because the Ping Yang ice scattering database it used was not polarized
and was obsolete (2000).  The broadband k-distribution programs
(ckdfu.f, ckdswrrtm.f, ckdlwrrtm.f) were also dropped because Monte
Carlo methods are much more efficient for broadband flux and heating
rate calculations.  These codes (and cloudprp.f and old scripts) are
still available in the last distribution of unpolarized SHDOM 
(shdom_unpol.tar.gz).


The following is a list of the files:

 README             this file

 shdom.txt          documentation file for SHDOM
 shdom.f90          main program
 shdomsub1.f        subroutines used during solution procedure
 shdomsub2.f        subroutines used before or after solution procedure
 shdomsub3.f        input/output subroutines 
 shdom_mpi.f90      subroutines that make MPI calls
 shdom_nompi.f      dummy routines for not using MPI
 shdom_netcdf.f90   subroutines that make netcdf calls
 shdom_nonetcdf.f90 dummy routines for not using netcdf
 fftpack.f          Fast Fourier Transform routines
 ocean_brdf.f       scalar ocean surface reflectance routines

 propgen.txt        documentation for the optical property generation system
 make_mie_table.f90 makes scattering table for spherical particles
 miewig.f           subroutines for Mie scattering
 indexwatice.f      water/ice refractive index routines
 make_tmatrix_table.f90   makes scattering table for spheroids and cylinder
 tmatrixwig.f       subroutines for T-matrix calculations
 lpd.f              matrix solver routines for T-matrix routines
 tmd.par.f          array size parameter file for T-matrix routines
 plotscattab.f90    makes phase functions versus angle from scattering tables
 propgen.f90        makes SHDOM property file from particle properties file
 AsciiPropertyFileToNetcdf.f90

 makefile           Unix makefile for compiling shdom and companion programs

 run_mono_les       script to do monochromatic solar or thermal RT in a cloud
 run_brdf           script demonstrating five surface reflection models
 run_polarized      script to make scattering tables, property file, and
                      run polarized SHDOM for cloud and dust aerosol
 run_visualize      script demonstrating SHDOM visualization image output
 run_multproc       script demonstrating SHDOM with multiple processors on SMP
 put.c              small C program for scripts

 lesw16.nml          example namelist input file
 les2y21.lwc         LWC file for propgen (2D slice of LES field)
 les_stcu.lwc        LWC file for propgen (full LES field) for run_visualize
 era0621nh12_t21.lwc LWC file (large grid sparse cumulus LES field)
 aero0822nh15c_t13_iy249.lwc  LWC file for polarization example script

 idl/           directory of IDL files for reading and visualizing SHDOM files
                   See shdom1dplots.pro, shdom2dplots.pro, 
                      plot_brdf.pro, and plot_polarized.pro

 Updatelist.txt  list of distribution dates with bug fixes and updates made

Comments, bug reports, and suggestions are welcome.  

    Frank Evans           March 7, 2014
    Dept. of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences
    University of Colorado, Boulder 80309-0311
    evans@nit.colorado.edu     (719) 580-5003
